COMP90074 Web Security Assignment 1
Student Name: Quanchi Chen
Student ID Number: 1358474



Vulnerability 1: SQL Injection – Union Queries

The vulnerability arises on line 116 in app.py due to missing validation and sanitisation of the user-input username.

Below is the process of exploiting this SQL injection vulnerability.
1.	Go to the signup page.
2.	Register a new user with quanchic as both the username and the password.
3.	Go to the login page.
4.	Enter quanchic into the Password text field and input the following line into the Username text field.
	' AND 1=0 UNION SELECT 'admin', (SELECT password FROM users WHERE username='quanchic') --
5.	You have logged in to the application as the trusted administrator, even if you do not know the administrator's password.

After exploiting this vulnerability, an attacker can perform any actions the administrator can, such as injecting malicious JavaScript code via the messaging input field on the home page.

I fixed this vulnerability by changing lines 116 and 118 using parameterised queries.
116: sql = "SELECT username, password FROM users WHERE username = ?;"
118: cursor.execute(sql, [username])



Vulnerability 2: Stored Server XSS

The vulnerability arises on line 92 in app.py due to not sanitising the administrator-input messages.

Below is the process of exploiting this stored server XSS vulnerability.
1.	Follow the above process to log in to the application as the administrator.
2.	Enter the following potentially malicious JavaScript code as the message.
	<script>alert('Attack!')</script>
3.	Send that message.

After exploiting this vulnerability, an attacker can inject malicious JavaScript code into the server. Thus, every logged-in user's browser will execute the response from the server containing that code and cause potential harm.

I fixed this vulnerability by making line 92 in app.py as a comment and fixing the indentation of line 93, allowing the server to sanitise the administrator's input.



Vulnerability 3: Blind SQL Injection

The vulnerability arises on line 137 in app.py due to missing validation and sanitisation of the possibly user-input username. Note that an attacker can know the existence of the userexists API endpoint by observing the browser console when interacting with the signup page.

Below is the process of exploiting this stored server XSS vulnerability.
1.	Enter the following URL.
	http://localhost/userexists?username=quanchic%27%20AND%20phone%20=%20%270478275727
2.	Observe the response from the server to tell if the guessed phone number is correct.

After exploiting this vulnerability, an attacker can write an automated script to query the userexists API endpoint to guess the phone number of a particular user.

I fixed this vulnerability by changing lines 137 and 139 using parameterised queries.
137: sql = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = ?"
139: cursor.execute(sql, [request.args['username']])
